Hello everyone and welcome to the course material installation lecture for Windows and Microsoft users
in this lecture.
We're just going to be going over how to download Python and the Jupiter notebook system onto your computer
in case you don't already have it later on in this same section.
We'll get a much deeper introduction to the Jupiter notebooks how best to use them and also where to
access the course material and those course notebooks as well as the interview in a mock interview notebooks
.
With that said let's go ahead and jump to the browser so we can download the materials.
OK.
So for everything we're going to be using in this course I highly recommend the Chrome browser.
It really works best with the Jupiter notebooks.
But let's first begin by installing it you bring up books.
Go to your favorite browser.
I highly recommend chrome or Mozilla Firefox and Taipan Jupiter into the Google search engine.
So j u p y t e.
Our search for it and the first link should take you to Jupiter dot org.
You can go ahead and click that link and this is the Jupiter notebook Web site.
The Jupiter note book is essentially a web application that allows you to create and share documents
that contain life code equations visualizations and explanatory text.
Their uses include data cleaning and transformation numerical simulation statistical modeling machine
learning and much more in this course we use them as the basis for all the interview practice problems
as well as the notes that correspond to each of the video lectures.
Once you're on your website on this Web site you can scroll down and you have two options here.
Try it in your browser and install the notebook.
Something that I want to know is that if you click try it in your browser we'll go ahead and open this
in a new tab.
It'll take you to try that Jupiter dot org.
This will allow you to go ahead and try the Jupiter notebooks in your browser without installing anything
.
So you could just come to try that Jupiter or and then click here writes new Python 2 or Python 3 depending
on what you want to use and you can go ahead and begin to immediately code in your browser and I'll
run that cell.
Now we can see the output.
Now we'll explain what cells are what this toolbar is and how it all works in next lectures that are
coming up but just so you know you can go to try that Jupiter or and try this all in your browser without
having to download anything.
Well let's actually focus on downloading.
So we want to go to click here on install the notebook that will take you to the installation documentation
for the Jupiter notebook system.
You'll see there's three options.
Installing Jupiter in Python installing Jupiter.
If you already have Python or upgrading to a Jupiter installation here we'll focus on installing Jupiter
and Python for New Years new users.
It's highly recommended that you install Anaconda which conveniently installs Python the Jupiter notebook
and other commonly used packages for scientific computing.
I highly recommend you install Anaconda.
Even if you already have some sort of version of Python on your computer system.
So if you click this link it'll take you to this tab to continue on.
I know slash downloads you can go here.
Jump to Windows if you're using Windows and then go ahead and click the graphical installer Once you
download the installer you just double click the executable file that's the dot e x.
E file to install Anaconda.
And just follow the instructions on the screen.
So that's what I recommend for any user who doesn't have Anaconda's yet.
If you already have Python and don't want to install the entire Anaconda distribution you can just install
Jupiter.
Depending on what installation packaging manager you have.
If you already have anaconda you would just use conda installed Jupiter as a command line either in
your command prompt or a terminal or a power shell.
So I'll show you an example of that.
So I go ahead and type in power shell into my search and click power shell.
I'll get this command prompt.
Terminal available to me and then I can just type Khanda install Jupiter enter and if you already have
the Anaconda distribution this will install the Jupiter notebook's system.
If you're using a different package manager such as Pip Pip 3 you can just say Pip install Jupiter or
Pip 3 installed Jupiter and you'll see here it'll start fetching the package better data solving the
packet specifications and eventually download everything for you all at that continue.
You should note that some of Jupiter's dependencies may require compilation.
In this case we will have to worry about that.
We're just going to be using basic Python.
You can also upgrade a Jupiter installation if your idea of Pip.
Just use this Pip install Dasch you Jupiter freezing Anaconda.
Just use Khanda space update space Jupiter.
That's really all there is to it.
So again just an overview.
Go to try that Jupiter.
Or if you want to just use everything in browser otherwise Google search Jupiter and then click on the
link that will take you to the installation page and follow the directions that best suit you.
I highly recommend installing Anaconda which will take you to this page.
Click on the graphical installer.
Follow the instructions and continue from there.
Once you've installed everything you can just go to your Power Shell or command prompt for Windows.
Either one is fine.
And then type in Jupiter or notebook and you should get your own instance running.
OK so that's it.
Go ahead and check out the other documentation here.
As far as running the notebook migrating from my Python etc..
But once you've installed everything all you have to do is go to your command proper terminal type Jupiter
notebook and you should see your own local instance of the Jupiter notebook.
Running will go over old and a lot more detail.
The Jupiter notebooks and the coarse notebooks in the future lectures.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture